testcluster/README.md, before:

# Parallel Cluster playground

## Cluster Admin

### Setup
You can follow the official [docs][install_doc] or [this][blog_1] blog post (section `Setting up your client environment`) to set up the client requirements for parallel cluster.

```bash
conda env update -f pcluster_client.env.yml
```

### Configuration
This configuration expects certain AWS resources to pre-exist, namely:
- a network configuration with `VPC` and `subnet` according to the requirements of Parallel Cluster (the AWS defaults should be OK)
- an instance role `parallelcluster-ec2-instance-role` with appropriate permissions to e.g. access S3 resources, allow SSM login, etc... See AWS managed policies `AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore` and `AmazonS3ReadOnlyAccess` and policy.json (requires region substitution).
- a key pair to be used for SSH (as admin backup to SSM)

The default configuration (especially EC2 instance types for the compute fleet) may require modifications before it is suitable for your use case. See the 'config' file and adjust as necessary.

NOTE: See the provided bootstrap script for an example on how to setup the EC2 instances. Note that the config files points to an S3 location!

### Running the cluster

```bash
export CLUSTER_NAME="my-test-cluster"
# Create a cluster called my-test-cluster
(parallel_cluster) ~ $ pcluster create $CLUSTER_NAME --config config --cluster-template dev --tags '{"Creator" : "'"$USER"'"}'
Beginning cluster creation for cluster: my-test-cluster
Creating stack named: parallelcluster-my-test-cluster
Status: parallelcluster-my-test-cluster - CREATE_COMPLETE
MasterPublicIP: 3.104.49.154
ClusterUser: ec2-user
MasterPrivateIP: 172.31.23.110
(parallel_cluster) ~ $

# Delete the cluster when finished
(parallel_cluster) ~ $ pcluster delete $CLUSTER_NAME --config config
```

## Cluster Use

```bash
# Retrieve IP of Master/Login node
aws ec2 describe-instances \
    --query "Reservations[*].Instances[*].[InstanceId]" \
    --filters "Name=instance-state-name,Values=running" "Name=tag:Name,Values=Master" \
    | jq -r '.[][][]'

# Login to the master node
aws ssm start-session --target <instance ID>

# Once on the master node, change into the ec2-user
# (as the environment is setup for that user)
sudo su ec2-user

# Run Slurm commands
sinfo ...
squeue ...
srun ...
sbatch ...
```

Example batch script file
```bash
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH --output %J.out
#SBATCH --error %J.err
#SBATCH --time=00:05:00

echo 'Foo'
docker run --rm hello-world
```


## Notes & Comments

The bootstrapping installs the `sinteractive` script also used on `Spartan` and it should work in the same way. The Slurm native alternative can be used as well: 

```bash
sinteractive --time=10:00 --nodes=1 --cpus-per-task=1
srun --time=10:00 --nodes=1 --cpus-per-task=1 --pty -u "/bin/bash" -i -l
```

### Software availability
Software installed on the login node is **not** automatically available on the compute nodes. For software to be avaiable on the cluster it will either have to be installed during the bootstrapping process (which will impact on time it takes for nodes to become available), be used within Docker containers (docker is installed on the cluster) or have to be distributed using a custom AMI that can be used when starting the cluster.

### File System
The cluster uses EFS to provide a scalable FS that is available to all nodes. This means that all compute nodes have access to the same FS and don't necessarily have to stage their own data (if it was already put in place). However, that also means the data put into EFS remains avaiable (and chargeable) as long as the cluster remains. So data will have to be cleaned up manually after it fulfilled it's purpose.

### Limitations
The current cluster and scheduler (Slurm) run with minimal configuration, so there will be some limitations. Known points include:

- Slurm's accounting (`sacct`) is not supported, as it requires an accounting data store to be set up.
- `--mem` option may cause a job to fail with `Requested node configuration is not available`

[install_doc]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/parallelcluster/latest/ug/install.html
[blog_1]: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/building-an-interactive-and-scalable-ml-research-environment-using-aws-parallelcluster/

Commit message:

Minor review and changes to parallel cluster docs and config, bump to m5.large for nodes, convenience start/stop scripts

testcluster/README.md, after:

# Parallel Cluster playground

## Cluster Admin

### Setup
You can follow the official [docs][install_doc] or [this][blog_1] blog post (section `Setting up your client environment`) to set up the client requirements for parallel cluster.

```bash
conda env update -f conf/pcluster_client.env.yml
```

### Configuration
This configuration expects certain AWS resources to pre-exist, namely:
- a network configuration with `VPC` and `subnet` according to the requirements of Parallel Cluster (the AWS defaults should be OK)
- an instance role `parallelcluster-ec2-instance-role` with appropriate permissions to e.g. access S3 resources, allow SSM login, etc... See AWS managed policies `AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore` and `AmazonS3ReadOnlyAccess` and policy.json (requires region substitution).
- a key pair to be used for SSH (as admin backup to SSM)

The default configuration (especially EC2 instance types for the compute fleet) may require modifications before it is suitable for your use case. See the `conf/config` file and adjust as necessary.

NOTE: See the provided bootstrap script under `conf/bootstrap.sh` for an example on how to setup the EC2 instances.

### Running the cluster

```bash
# Create a cluster called my-test-cluster
$ export CLUSTER_NAME="my-test-cluster"
$ pcluster create $CLUSTER_NAME --config config --cluster-template dev --tags '{"Creator" : "'"$USER"'"}'
Beginning cluster creation for cluster: my-test-cluster
Creating stack named: parallelcluster-my-test-cluster
Status: parallelcluster-my-test-cluster - CREATE_COMPLETE
MasterPublicIP: 3.104.49.154
ClusterUser: ec2-user
MasterPrivateIP: 172.31.23.110

# Delete the cluster when finished
$ pcluster delete $CLUSTER_NAME --config conf/config
```

## Cluster Use

```bash
# Retrieve IP of Master/Login node
aws ec2 describe-instances \
    --query "Reservations[*].Instances[*].[InstanceId]" \
    --filters "Name=instance-state-name,Values=running" "Name=tag:Name,Values=Master" \
    | jq -r '.[][][]'

# Login to the master node
aws ssm start-session --target <instance ID>

# Once on the master node, change into the ec2-user
# (as the environment is setup for that user)
sudo su ec2-user

# Run Slurm commands
sinfo ...
squeue ...
srun ...
sbatch ...
```

Example batch script file
```bash
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH --output %J.out
#SBATCH --error %J.err
#SBATCH --time=00:05:00

echo 'Foo'
docker run --rm hello-world
```


## Notes & Comments

The bootstrapping installs the `sinteractive` script also used on `Spartan` and it should work in the same way. The Slurm native alternative can be used as well: 

```bash
sinteractive --time=10:00 --nodes=1 --cpus-per-task=1
srun --time=10:00 --nodes=1 --cpus-per-task=1 --pty -u "/bin/bash" -i -l
```

### Software availability
Software installed on the login node is **not** automatically available on the compute nodes. For software to be avaiable on the cluster it will either have to be installed during the bootstrapping process (which will impact on time it takes for nodes to become available), be used within Docker containers (docker is installed on the cluster) or have to be distributed using a custom AMI that can be used when starting the cluster.

### File System
The cluster uses EFS to provide a scalable FS that is available to all nodes. This means that all compute nodes have access to the same FS and don't necessarily have to stage their own data (if it was already put in place). However, that also means the data put into EFS remains avaiable (and chargeable) as long as the cluster remains. So data will have to be cleaned up manually after it fulfilled it's purpose.

### Limitations
The current cluster and scheduler (Slurm) run with minimal configuration, so there will be some limitations. Known points include:

- Slurm's accounting (`sacct`) is not supported, as it requires an accounting data store to be set up.
- `--mem` option may cause a job to fail with `Requested node configuration is not available`

[install_doc]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/parallelcluster/latest/ug/install.html
[blog_1]: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/building-an-interactive-and-scalable-ml-research-environment-using-aws-parallelcluster/
